---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-01-15T21:25:24.666Z'
dateModified: '2016-01-15T20:10:03.854Z'
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-01-15-efdf85e0-7b07-4c68-b482-f7f75ba00692.md
published: true
url: efdf85e0-7b07-4c68-b482-f7f75ba00692/index.html
_type: Article

---
Some years back I had to visit a person who had been committed in a psychiatric hospital due to what the doctors called a depressive disorder. While I was chatting to him in the common room I felt a presence behind me, I turned to see a young and beautiful woman, she must have been around nineteen years old at the time. She entered the room accompanied by several other patients, chatting and smoking they walked passed and sat a little way from us.

As I observed the girl my friend said, "poor kid, she thinks she's a witch."

I said, "if that is what she calls herself, then she probably is a Witch."

My friend looked at me confused at first, then laughed, "you are wrong Inelia, the kid's just round the bend, a slice short of a loaf, a penny short of a shilling, if you know what I mean."

I knew exactly what he meant.

This happened as we were entering the new millennium.

The girl had grown up, like all of us, in a family and society that completely ignored the nature of her gifts. At another time, at another place, she would have become the Healer, the Shaman, the Medicine Woman, a Psychic, a Hero, or she may even have been burned at the stake.  When I returned the following weekend the girl was sitting on the stairwell, "I've been waiting for you," she said, "I knew you were coming today, I saw you last week, talking to that friend of yours. I just wanted to tell you that you are the most beautiful person I have ever seen in my life."

"I know what you are," she added, "you are an angel come from heaven to help me."

"No," I said, "I am just someone like you, we are the same." At that moment she moved to one side, we could feel my friend wondering where I was.

"You better go to him, he's a good guy, a bit messed up but means no harm."

"Yeah, I know," I said and carried on up the stairs.

We didn't say goodbye, we didn't need to.

There was nothing I could do for that girl, she was too far gone for me to help her. Besides, coming out of that state was something she had to do on her own, something only she could do. Unfortunately it would be hard for her, as a gifted human full of drugs, or medications as the doctors would prefer to call it, was as good as dead.

I often think about her, I send her a prayer and energy whenever I do, a prayer that she may find her path once again, that she can become strong and find the tools to be herself, to use her gifts and be able to survive in our society. But was she really a witch?